apps/www/content/docs/collaboration.mdx, before:

---
title: Collaboration
---

<Callout className="my-4">

**Backend Development in Progress** - Demo Unavailable.

</Callout>

<PackageInfo>

## Features

- The yjs plugin enables support for collaboration using [slate-yjs](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/) and [Hocuspocus](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/walkthroughs/collaboration-hocuspocus).

</PackageInfo>

## Frontend

### Installation

```bash
npm install @udecode/plate-yjs
```

### Usage

```tsx
import { YjsPlugin } from '@udecode/plate-yjs/react';

const editor = createPlateEditor({
  plugins: [
    // ...otherPlugins,
    YjsPlugin.configure({
      options: {
        hocuspocusProviderOptions: {
          url: "https://hocuspocus.test/hocuspocus",
          name: "test",
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Backend

Follow the backend instructions in [Hocuspocus docs](https://tiptap.dev/hocuspocus/getting-started).

## Plugins

### YjsPlugin

<APIOptions>
<APIItem name="cursorOptions" type="WithCursorsOptions<TCursorData>" optional>
Configuration for handling cursors in the editor. These options are passed
to the `withCursors` function.

- [WithCursorsOptions API](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/cursor-plugin#withcursors).

</APIItem>
<APIItem
  name="hocuspocusProviderOptions"
  type="HocuspocusProviderConfiguration"
  required
>
Configuration for the Hocuspocus provider.

- [HocuspocusProviderConfiguration API](https://tiptap.dev/hocuspocus/provider/configuration).

</APIItem>
<APIItem name="yjsOptions" type="WithYjsOptions" optional>
Optional configuration for the Yjs integration. These options are passed to
the `withYjs` function.

- [WithYjsOptions API](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/yjs-plugin#withyjs).

</APIItem>
<APIItem name="disableCursors" type="boolean" optional>
A flag indicating whether to disable the cursor feature in the editor.
</APIItem>
</APIOptions>

## API

### useYjsStore

<APIState>
  <APIItem name="isConnected" type="boolean">
    A flag indicating whether the editor is connected to the Hocuspocus server.
  </APIItem>
  <APIItem name="isSynced" type="boolean">
    A flag indicating whether the editor is synced with the Hocuspocus server.
  </APIItem>
</APIState>

### withTYjs

Higher-order function that wraps a Plate editor with Yjs support, allowing for real-time collaborative editing.

### PlateYjsEditorProps

<APIAttributes>

Extends `YjsEditorProps` and [CursorEditor](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/cursor-plugin#cursoreditor).

<APIItem name="yjs" type="object">
  
<APISubList>

<APISubListItem parent="yjs" name="provider" type="HocuspocusProvider">

The Hocuspocus provider instance.

</APISubListItem>

</APISubList>

</APIItem>

</APIAttributes>

### YHistoryEditorProps

Extends `YjsEditorProps`, [YHistoryEditor](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/history-plugin#yhistoryeditor).

### YjsEditorProps

[YjsEditor API](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/yjs-plugin#yjseditor).

Commit message:

feat: show remote cursors when in collaboration.

apps/www/content/docs/collaboration.mdx, after:

---
title: Collaboration
---

<Callout className="my-4">

**Backend Development in Progress** - Demo Unavailable.

</Callout>

<PackageInfo>

## Features

- The yjs plugin enables support for collaboration using [slate-yjs](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/) and [Hocuspocus](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/walkthroughs/collaboration-hocuspocus).
- By default remote cursors are rendered slightly faded and become solid on hover.
- To customize, copy `YjsAboveEditable.tsx` and `Overlay.tsx` into your project and override the `options.render.aboveEditable` option to this plugin.

</PackageInfo>

## Frontend

### Installation

```bash
npm install @udecode/plate-yjs
```

### Usage

```tsx
import { YjsPlugin } from '@udecode/plate-yjs/react';

const editor = createPlateEditor({
  plugins: [
    // ...otherPlugins,
    YjsPlugin.configure({
      options: {
        hocuspocusProviderOptions: {
          url: 'https://hocuspocus.test/hocuspocus',
          name: 'test',
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
});
```

## Backend

Follow the backend instructions in [Hocuspocus docs](https://tiptap.dev/hocuspocus/getting-started).

## Plugins

### YjsPlugin

<APIOptions>
<APIItem name="cursorOptions" type="WithCursorsOptions<TCursorData>" optional>
Configuration for handling cursors in the editor. These options are passed
to the `withCursors` function.

- [WithCursorsOptions API](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/cursor-plugin#withcursors).

</APIItem>
<APIItem
  name="hocuspocusProviderOptions"
  type="HocuspocusProviderConfiguration"
  required
>
Configuration for the Hocuspocus provider.

- [HocuspocusProviderConfiguration API](https://tiptap.dev/hocuspocus/provider/configuration).

</APIItem>
<APIItem name="yjsOptions" type="WithYjsOptions" optional>
Optional configuration for the Yjs integration. These options are passed to
the `withYjs` function.

- [WithYjsOptions API](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/yjs-plugin#withyjs).

</APIItem>
<APIItem name="disableCursors" type="boolean" optional>
A flag indicating whether to disable the cursor feature in the editor.
</APIItem>
</APIOptions>

## API

### useYjsStore

<APIState>
  <APIItem name="isConnected" type="boolean">
    A flag indicating whether the editor is connected to the Hocuspocus server.
  </APIItem>
  <APIItem name="isSynced" type="boolean">
    A flag indicating whether the editor is synced with the Hocuspocus server.
  </APIItem>
</APIState>

### withTYjs

Higher-order function that wraps a Plate editor with Yjs support, allowing for real-time collaborative editing.

### PlateYjsEditorProps

<APIAttributes>

Extends `YjsEditorProps` and [CursorEditor](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/cursor-plugin#cursoreditor).

<APIItem name="yjs" type="object">
  
<APISubList>

<APISubListItem parent="yjs" name="provider" type="HocuspocusProvider">

The Hocuspocus provider instance.

</APISubListItem>

</APISubList>

</APIItem>

</APIAttributes>

### YHistoryEditorProps

Extends `YjsEditorProps`, [YHistoryEditor](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/history-plugin#yhistoryeditor).

### YjsEditorProps

[YjsEditor API](https://docs.slate-yjs.dev/api/slate-yjs-core/yjs-plugin#yjseditor).
