docs/docs/plugins/combobox.mdx, before:

---
slug: /plugins/combobox
title: Combobox
---

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @udecode/plate
# or
npm install @udecode/plate-ui-combobox
```

### Combobox Store

The combobox state is stored in a [zustood store](https://github.com/udecode/zustood): `comboboxStore`.

#### `ComboboxState`

- `activeId` – Active id (combobox id which is opened)
- `byId` – Object whose keys are combobox ids and values are combobox config stores (e.g. one for tag, one for mention,...)
- `items` – Unfiltered items
- `filteredItems` – Filtered items
- `highlightedIndex` – Highlighted index
- `floatingOptions` – Overrides `useFloating` options
- `targetRange` – Range from the trigger to the cursor
- `text` – Text after the trigger

#### `ComboboxStateById`

- `activeId` – Combobox id
- `filter` – Items filter function by text
- `maxSuggestions` – Max number of items
- `trigger` – Trigger that activates the combobox
- `onSelectItem` – Called when an item is selected

### Combobox Component

- can be rendered multiple times for each combobox configuration (`ComboboxStateById`)
- singleton (only one combobox can be opened), its state is stored in `comboboxStore`

#### Props

- `ComboboxStateById` – the combobox config
- `items` – Set items to the combobox store. Alternative: `comboboxActions.items(items)`.
- `component` – Render this component when the combobox is open (useful to inject hooks).
- `onRenderItem` – Render combobox item (default is `text`)

### Combobox Items

Combobox items have the following interface:

```ts
export interface ComboboxItemData {
  /**
   * Unique key.
   */
  key: string;

  /**
   * Item text.
   */
  text: any;

  /**
   * Whether the item is disabled.
   * @default false
   */
  disabled?: boolean;

  /**
   * Data available to `onRenderItem`.
   */
  data?: unknown;
}
```

### Combobox plugin

`onChange`:

#### For each combobox state:
- if the selection is collapsed
- if the cursor follows the trigger
- if there is text without whitespaces after the trigger
- open the combobox: set `id`, `text`, `targetRange` in the store 

#### `onKeyDown`

If the combobox is open, handle:
- down (next item)
- up (previous item)
- escape (reset combobox)
- tab, enter (select item)

### Source Code

- [Plugin](https://github.com/udecode/plate/blob/main/packages/ui/combobox/src/createComboboxPlugin.ts)
- [packages/ui/combobox](https://github.com/udecode/plate/tree/main/packages/ui/combobox/src)
- [Variables](https://github.com/udecode/plate/blob/main/examples/src)

Commit message:

Plugin Docs (#2310)
* Docs

* Update balloon-toolbar.mdx

* Update cursor-overlay.mdx

* Update cursor-overlay.mdx

* Update cursor-overlay.mdx

* docs

* docs

* docs

---------

Co-authored-by: TomMorane <moranetom@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ziad Beyens <ziad.beyens@gmail.com>

docs/docs/plugins/combobox.mdx, after:

---
slug: /plugins/combobox
title: Combobox
---

The Combobox plugin provides a combobox element that allows users to select an option from a list of predefined choices.
Comboboxes are commonly used for mentions, tags, slash commands
and other user interfaces to offer a quick and straightforward way for users to make a selection from a predefined set of options.

### Demo

Try out the Combobox plugin paired with the [Mention plugin](docs/plugins/mention). 

### Installation

Follow these steps to integrate the combobox plugin into your Plate editor:

1. Install the required packages:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @udecode/plate
# or
npm install @udecode/plate-ui-combobox
```

2. Import the plugin and add it to your plugin list:

```tsx
import { createComboboxPlugin, createMentionPlugin } from '@udecode/plate';

const plugins = createPlugins([
  // ...otherPlugins,
  createComboboxPlugin(),
  createMentionPlugin(),
], {
  components: createPlateUI(),
});
```

### Combobox Store

The combobox state is stored in a [zustood store](https://github.com/udecode/zustood): `comboboxStore`.

#### `ComboboxState`

- `activeId` – Active id (combobox id which is opened)
- `byId` – Object whose keys are combobox ids and values are combobox config stores (e.g. one for tag, one for mention,...)
- `items` – Unfiltered items
- `filteredItems` – Filtered items
- `highlightedIndex` – Highlighted index
- `floatingOptions` – Overrides `useFloating` options
- `targetRange` – Range from the trigger to the cursor
- `text` – Text after the trigger

#### `ComboboxStateById`

- `activeId` – Combobox id
- `filter` – Items filter function by text
- `maxSuggestions` – Max number of items
- `trigger` – Trigger that activates the combobox
- `onSelectItem` – Called when an item is selected

### Combobox Component

- can be rendered multiple times for each combobox configuration (`ComboboxStateById`)
- singleton (only one combobox can be opened), its state is stored in `comboboxStore`

#### Props

- `ComboboxStateById` – the combobox config
- `items` – Set items to the combobox store. Alternative: `comboboxActions.items(items)`.
- `component` – Render this component when the combobox is open (useful to inject hooks).
- `onRenderItem` – Render combobox item (default is `text`)

### Combobox Items

Combobox items have the following interface:

```ts
export interface ComboboxItemData {
  /**
   * Unique key.
   */
  key: string;

  /**
   * Item text.
   */
  text: any;

  /**
   * Whether the item is disabled.
   * @default false
   */
  disabled?: boolean;

  /**
   * Data available to `onRenderItem`.
   */
  data?: unknown;
}
```

### Combobox plugin

`onChange`:

#### For each combobox state:
- if the selection is collapsed
- if the cursor follows the trigger
- if there is text without whitespaces after the trigger
- open the combobox: set `id`, `text`, `targetRange` in the store 

#### `onKeyDown`

If the combobox is open, handle:
- down (next item)
- up (previous item)
- escape (reset combobox)
- tab, enter (select item)

### Source Code

- [Plugin](https://github.com/udecode/plate/blob/main/packages/ui/combobox/src/createComboboxPlugin.ts)
- [packages/ui/combobox](https://github.com/udecode/plate/tree/main/packages/ui/combobox/src)
- [Variables](https://github.com/udecode/plate/blob/main/examples/src)
